+++
title = 'Home'
menu = 'main'
weight = 1
+++

I'm a software engineer at Waymo in Bay Area. I build machine learning models
that improve simulation realism and help ensure the safety of our self-driving
systems.

### Work & Education

I received my bachelor’s degree in applied mathematics and physics from
[MIPT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moscow_Institute_of_Physics_and_Technology).
My journey into computer science started with a fascination for competitive
programming when I was a freshman. Soon after, I participated in [Google Summer
of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/) and built Clang-based tool to
detect copy-pasted code in open-source projects (can check out [LLVM Dev Meeting
2015 poster](https://github.com/kirillbobyrev/code-clone-detection-llvm-devmtg15-poster)).
This project led to an internship at Google, where I had built static analysis
tools for C++, including
[clang-rename](https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-rename.html) and
[Clang-Tidy](https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/index.html) checkers. I
learned a lot about the C++ ecosystem and the LLVM project, and I also
contributed to the [Clang Static Analyzer](https://clang-analyzer.llvm.org/).

My next challenge was with Google, where I contributed to
[clangd](https://clangd.llvm.org/), the Clang-based language server for C++. I
built a code completion search engine that boosted performance by up to 100x! I
presented project's
[design](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1C-A6PGT6TynyaX4PXyExNMiGmJ2jL1UwV91Kyx11gOI/)
and [showcased results](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VhxrFor3VyQ) at the LLVM
Developers Meeting 2019.

After graduation, I rejoined the team at Google where I had interned, this time
working extensively on clangd, Clang, and LLVM. I developed key tools like
[Remote Index](https://clangd.llvm.org/design/remote-index) and [Include
Cleaner](https://clangd.llvm.org/design/include-cleaner). In a team without a
dedicated product manager, I stepped up to bridge that gap - conducting UX
interviews, running surveys, gathering feedback, and prioritizing user needs. My
time at the Yandex School of Management
([ШМЯ](https://academy.yandex.ru/schools/management)) also equipped me with the
skills to manage product and project initiatives.

In 2022, I embarked on a new adventure by joining [Waymo](https://waymo.com/),
the self-driving car unit of Google and Alphabet. At Waymo, I build machine
learning models that enhance simulation realism and help ensure the safety of
our self-driving systems.

### Outside of Work

When I'm not working, you'll find me training in Jiu Jitsu, playing opponents in
chess, or exploring new places. I also enjoy competitive programming and
learning more about computer science and machine learning (through a [collection
of resources](https://github.com/kirillbobyrev/computer-science-resources) I've
gathered). I’m fluent in English, Russian, and German, and I live with two
mischievous Abyssinian cats.
