+++
title = "About"
menu = "main"
+++

# About

## Work and education

I graduated from [Moscow Institute of Physics and
Technology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moscow_Institute_of_Physics_and_Technology)
with a Bachelor's degree in applied mathematics and physics. In the first year I
became interested in computer science. I enjoyed doing competitive programming
and later participated in [Google Summer of
Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/). During GSoC I have built a
Clang-based [tool for detecting copy-pasted
code](https://github.com/kirillbobyrev/code-clone-detection-llvm-devmtg15-poster)
in open-source projects over the summer and got an offer for an internship at
Google to work on static analysis tooling. I worked on C++ tools such as
[clang-rename](https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-rename.html) and
[Clang-Tidy](https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/index.html), dived deeper
into Clang and the compiler's internals.

I enjoyed my time at Google and another internship at the same team in :de:
Munich.  This time I have worked on [clangd](https://clangd.llvm.org/),
Clang-based language server for C++. During the summer, I have built the code
completion search engine which resulted in up to **100x** performance
improvement! I carefully documented the project's
[design](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1C-A6PGT6TynyaX4PXyExNMiGmJ2jL1UwV91Kyx11gOI/)
and [presented it](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VhxrFor3VyQ) at the LLVM
Developers Meeting.

I also worked in the Machine Learning field for a while, studying and
researching convex optimization at the university and then joining
[Handl](https://handl.ai/), a Y-Combinator-backed startup to work on optical
character recognition.

After I graduated the university, I joined the at Google in Munich I did an
internship in and spent almost three years there improving clangd. Among other
things, I have built [Remote Index](https://clangd.llvm.org/design/remote-index)
and [Include Cleaner](https://clangd.llvm.org/design/include-cleaner). In the
absence of a Product Manager in our team, I acted as one - learning what
features our users want, conducting UX interviews and surveys, processing
feedback and prioritizing the most pressing issues. I previously studied in
Yandex School of Management
([ШМЯ](https://academy.yandex.ru/schools/management)) which helped me develop
enough expertise to take on Product Manager or Project Manager responsibilities.

In 2022 I have transferred to Waymo, Google's self-driving cars unit, and moved
to :us: California. At Waymo I work on
[Simulation](https://blog.waymo.com/2021/06/SimulationCity.html) which helps us
ensure safety for our vehicles and the public, and allows rapid experimentation
with our software.

My programming language of choice is usually C++, Rust or Python.

## Outside of work

When I'm not working, I enjoy training jiu-jitsu and Muay Thai, playing chess
online ([lichess.org/@/kirillbobyrev](https://lichess.org/@/kirillbobyrev)) and
travel.

I like doing competitive programming tournaments on Codeforces
([profile](https://codeforces.com/profile/kirillbobyrev)) and studying computer
science (here's a
[collection](https://github.com/kirillbobyrev/computer-science-resources) of
resources I want to study).

I'm also living with two crazy Abyssinian kittens :cat:, check out [their
Instagram](https://instagram.com/dixie_pixie_cats/).
